---
layout: default
title: Research Project
---  

# My Final Research Project  

This is a big project, and you definitely want a place to show it off! Here's a suggested layout for that (but feel free to display your work however you prefer).
You can link to your project here, or embed it.
If it is easier to embed your project in an HTML file, just change the .md on this one to .html, and write in HTML! (Be sure to update the links to this page to reflect the new name though!)

# Abstract: Unions and the End of Exploitative Work Practices

<p>
	In an age where the job market feels like the worst it has been in years, many workers are left in the unfortunate positions where they cannot leave exploitative workplaces. According to Sage Journals, “the findings suggest that individuals who are forced to sell their labor power and obtain what they need through the market are more likely to continue to be exploited by their employer, as they have no other options than to continue the relationship.” (Braekkan and Sowa). However, this is not a sustainable solution for many.

	This is why my project has utilized generative text with Tracery to teach workers how to identify a toxic work environment, and demonstrate how unionizing can improve these environments. For example, “Unions in both industrial and developing countries are successful in securing a wage markup for their members and other workers covered by collective agreements” (Aidt and Tzannatos). By unionizing, workers can develop a higher wage to protect themselves from economic uncertainty in the future. This also shields them from other economic wage violations such as “key violations identified for this section are: unpaid wages (including when an insolvent employer in unable to pay a former employee), unpaid leave, superannuation, minimum wage requirements, wage penalty rates, meal and rest period violations and unlawful business practices” (Boucher). Yet, if workers do not have this knowledge, they cannot address the workplace conditions they find themselves in. By asking questions generated by Tracery, I have been able to demonstrate the power of collective action in making workplaces safer for everyone.

	Further, these questions have outlined the weaknesses and pitfalls of unions. For many minority groups, they do not see themselves in union leadership. This is especially true for migrant workers. Nevertheless, these generated questions give solutions to make unions even stronger. In response to the question of representation, “integrating universalistic and particularistic approaches to union organising and recruitment strategies is critical to promote the successful involvement of vulnerable migrants into trade unions” (Alberti et al.). Making sure that everyone is involved makes unions stronger. Thus, by making union recruitment about identity and environment, we can leverage even more worker power. Further, we also have abolished myths like, “labor unions which exist to facilitate collusion among sellers, are unnecessary in a free society” (Pulliam). By using questions addressing common critiques of unions like these, we can make workers more sure in their power to address the lacking conditions of the workplace. 
</p>

# Works Cited

<p class="works-cited">Aidt, Toke, and Zafiris Tzannatos. Unions and Collective Bargaining: Economic Effects in a Global Environment. 2002, www.researchgate.net/profile/Zafiris-Tzannatos/publication/30483887_Unions_and_Collective_Bargaining_Economic_Effects_in_A_Global_Environment/links/5cda8241299bf14d959518d0/Unions-and-Collective-Bargaining-Economic-Effects-in-A-Global-Environment.pdf.</p>
<p class="works-cited">Alberti, Gabriella, et al. “Organising Migrants as Workers or as Migrant Workers? Intersectionality, Trade Unions and Precarious Work.” The International Journal of Human Resource Management, vol. 24, no. 22, Oct. 2013, pp. 4132–48. https://doi.org/10.1080/09585192.2013.845429.</p>
<p class="works-cited">Boucher, Anna. “‘What Is Exploitation and Workplace Abuse?’ a Classification Schema to Understand Exploitative Workplace Behaviour Towards Migrant Workers.” New Political Economy, vol. 27, no. 4, Oct. 2021, pp. 629–45. https://doi.org/10.1080/13563467.2021.1994541.</p>
<p class="works-cited">Braekkan, Kristian F., and Victoria “Tori” Sowa. “Exploitation by Economic Necessity.” SAGE Open, vol. 5, no. 4, Oct. 2015, https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244015610549.</p>
<p class="works-cited">Pulliam, Mark S. “The Exploitation of Labor and Other Union Myths.” The Independent Review, vol. 24, no. 3, 2019, pp. 409–31. JSTOR, http://www.jstor.org/stable/45238864. Accessed 29 Oct. 2025.</p>


<style>
  .works-cited {
    margin-left: 2em;
    text-indent: -2em;
    line-height: 1.5;
  }
</style>

<p class="works-cited">
  Lastname, Firstname. <em>Book Title</em>. Press, 2025.
</p>

<p class="works-cited">
  Doe, Jane. "Journal Article.” <em>Journal Name</em>, vol. 15, no. 2, 2025, pp. 45–67.
</p>
